{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Copperplate Gothic Light;}{\f1\fnil Copperplate Gothic Light;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\b\i\f0\fs110\lang9 Phishing:-\ulnone\par
\b0\fs44 Phishing is a type of cyberattack where attackers try to deceive individuals into revealing sensitive information, such as passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal data. This is usually done by masquerading as a trustworthy entity in electronic communications. Phishing attacks can lead to identity theft, financial loss, and unauthorized access to sensitive systems\fs66 .\par
\ul\b\fs88 Types of phishing:-\fs110\par
\ulnone\b0\fs66 (1)Email phishing:-\par

\pard\ri-1800\sa200\sl276\slmult1 =>\fs44 mail phishing is a deceptive practice where scammers send fraudulent emails or text messages to trick recipients into revealing sensitive information.This is the most common form of phishing, where attackers send emails that appear to be from legitimate organizations, such as banks, online services, or even colleagues. The email often contains a link to a fake website designed to steal login credentials or other personal information.\par
\b\fs66 Examples:-\b0\par
\fs44 (1)-You receive an urgent email from your \ldblquote bank\rdblquote  claiming suspicious activity on your account. It asks you to verify your details by clicking a link.\par
(2)-Imagine receiving an email that appears to be from your company\rquote s HR department, asking you to update your employee insurance details. The email design looks professional, but it\rquote s a scam.\par
(3)-An email claims your account is on hold due to a billing problem. It urges you to click a link to update payment details.\par
\b\fs66 (2)Smishing:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 Smishing, short for \ldblquote SMS phishing,\rdblquote  is a cybercrime technique that exploits text messages to deceive and defraud people.Smishing involves sending fraudulent messages via SMS (text messages). The attacker pretends to be a reputable entity, like a bank or a service provider, and tricks the victim into clicking a malicious link or providing sensitive information.\par
\b\fs66 Examples:-\par

\pard\ri-1800\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx720\b0\fs44 (1)-You receive a text message from what appears to be your bank.The message states there\rquote s been suspicious activity on your account.It asks you to confirm your identity by clicking a link and entering your account details.\par
(2)-You receive a text from what appears to be a delivery service (e.g., FedEx or DHL).The message claims your package has been lost.it prompts you to click a link for more information (which likely leads to a fraudulent website).\par
(3)-You get a text saying you\rquote ve won a contest or a prize.The message urges you to claim it by replying with your personal information.Scammers use this tactic to steal sensitive data.\par
(4)-Someone sends you a text claiming they\rquote ve sent you a gift or coupon.To activate it, they ask you to provide certain details.Be cautious\f1\emdash it\rquote s likely a smishing attempt.\par
\f0\lang1033 (5)-You receive a text supposedly from your financial institution.The message says they need to confirm your account details.Scammers hope you\rquote ll comply and reveal sensitive information.\par
\b\fs66 (3)Vishing:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 Vishing, or voice phishing, is when attackers use phone calls to impersonate someone trustworthy, like a bank representative or a government official. The goal is to trick the victim into revealing sensitive information, such as passwords or account numbers.\par
\b\fs66\lang9 Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-In 2021, a large-scale cyber attack used AI to mimic a company director\rquote s voice, convincing a bank manager to transfer $35 million as part of a fake acquisition process2.\par
(2)-Victims might receive a call claiming to be from their bank, asking for personal details.\par
(3)-Rarely, scammers may attempt to convince employees to wire money or pay for fake invoices to steal company funds.\par
\b\fs66 (4)Social Engineering:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 The manipulation of individuals into divulging confidential information or performing actions that compromise security. Social engineering exploits human psychology rather than technical vulnerabilities.\par
\b\fs66 Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-An email claiming suspicious account activity and urging you to click a link to verify your details.\par
\b\fs66 (5)Malware:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 Malicious software designed to harm, exploit, or otherwise compromise the target system. Types of malware include viruses, worms, ransomware, spyware, and Trojans.\par
\b\fs66 Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-DarkHotel targeted business and government leaders using hotel Wi-Fi, capturing sensitive information.\par
\b\fs66 (6)Website Soofing:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 Creating a fraudulent website that mimics a legitimate site to deceive users into entering personal information, such as login credentials or payment details.\b\fs66\par
Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)A complex cyber espionage attack targeting Google and over 30 other organizations.More than 20 companies were initially identified as victims, but later reports suggested over 34 organizations were targeted.This attack marked a significant escalation in cyber threats, emphasizing the vulnerability of even well-protected digital systems.\par
\b\fs66 (7)Page Hijacking Attack:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 An attack where a legitimate webpage is compromised, often by injecting malicious code, causing it to redirect users to a malicious site or display unwanted content.\b\fs66\par
Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-Firesheep, a Firefox extension released in 2010, allowed attackers to easily extract private information (including session cookies) from users over unencrypted Wi-Fi networks.\par
\b\fs66 (8)Email Domain Mismatch:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 Occurs when the sender's email domain does not match the organization it claims to represent. This is often a sign of phishing, where attackers forge email headers to deceive recipients.\b\fs66\par
Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-If an email claims to be from \ldblquote yourcompany.com,\rdblquote  but the SPF record or DKIM signature doesn\rquote t align with that domain, DMARC checks fail.\par
(2)-Suppose you visit a website by typing \ldblquote example.com\rdblquote  (without the \ldblquote www\rdblquote  prefix), but the SSL certificate only includes \ldblquote {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK www.example.com }}{\fldrslt{www.example.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs44\rdblquote  in its SAN. In this case, you\rquote ll encounter a common name mismatch error.\par
\b\fs66 (9)Spear Phishing:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 A targeted phishing attack where the attacker customizes the message to a specific individual or organization, using personal or organizational information to increase the likelihood of success.\par
\b\fs66 Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-In this scenario, you receive an email that appears to come from your internet service provider (ISP). The email claims there\rquote s an issue with your account or billing information and asks you to verify your home address by clicking a link or downloading an attachment. However, the link or attachment is malicious and could lead to malware infection or data theft.\par
\b\fs66 (10)Clone Phishing:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 Attackers create a nearly identical copy of a legitimate email, then send it to victims. The cloned email usually includes a malicious link or attachment, often disguised as an update or correction to the original message.\b\fs66\par
Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-You receive an email from \ldblquote support@yourbank.com\rdblquote  stating that your account has been compromised and urging you to click a link to reset your password. However, the link leads to a malicious website designed to steal your login information.\par
(2)-An email from \ldblquote refund@onlineshop.com\rdblquote  informs you that you\rquote ve been overcharged for a recent purchase. To claim your refund, click the provided link. Unfortunately, the link leads to a fraudulent site where your personal information is harvested.\b\fs66\par
(11)Whaling:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 A type of spear phishing that targets high-profile individuals, such as CEOs or senior executives, using highly customized and sophisticated tactics.\b\fs66\par
Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-Picture this: You\rquote re the HR director, responsible for managing payroll. An email lands in your inbox\f1\emdash it appears to be from the CEO. The subject: \ldblquote Confidential Payroll Update.\rdblquote  The email requests detailed payroll information for all current and past employees. Trusting the sender, you comply. Little do you know that the CEO\rquote s identity has been cloned, and the attacker now has access to sensitive employee data. \f2\u-10179?\u-9014?\u-10179?\u-8942?\par
\f0\lang1033 (2)-The attacker poses as a trusted executive\f1\emdash maybe the CFO or the CEO. They send an urgent email to the finance team, requesting a massive wire transfer to a new vendor or third party. The email seems legit, complete with the right tone and insider knowledge. The unsuspecting finance team initiates the transfer, and the funds vanish into the digital abyss. \f2\u-10179?\u-9032?\u-10180?\u-8432?\par
\b\f0\fs66 (12)Sense of Urgency:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 A tactic used in phishing and social engineering attacks where the attacker creates a sense of urgency, pressuring the victim to act quickly without careful consideration. This might involve claims like "Your account will be locked" or "Immediate action required."\b\fs66\par
Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-You emphasize the importance of prompt delivery, effective communication, and goal-oriented behavior. Team members understand that meeting deadlines is a shared responsibility. By consistently valuing productivity and responsiveness, you create a sense of urgency without causing unnecessary stress.\par
(2)-Suppose improving customer service response times is urgent. If a customer call comes in and no support reps are available, an employee takes the initiative to answer it promptly. This proactive approach demonstrates a sense of urgency.\par
\b\fs66 (13)Malicious Attachments:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 Files attached to emails or messages that contain malware. When opened, these attachments can install harmful software, leading to data breaches, system compromise, or other security issues.\b\fs66\par
Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-Malicious email attachments play dress-up. They arrive in your inbox wearing costumes\f1\emdash PDFs, Word documents, images, or audio files. Innocent-looking, right? But when you open them, they unleash their true identity: malware.\par
\b\f0\fs66 (14)Business Email Compromise (BEC):-\par
=>\b0\fs44 A sophisticated attack where attackers gain access to a legitimate business email account and use it to deceive employees, customers, or partners into transferring money or sensitive information. BEC often involves careful planning and social engineering to impersonate executives or other trusted entities.\par
\b\fs66 Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-In 2015, IT company Ubiquiti reported a $46.7 million \ldblquote business fraud\rdblquote  to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This incident exemplifies Vendor Email Compromise (VEC), a subtype of BEC.The attackers impersonated employees from a third-party company and targeted Ubiquiti\rquote s finance department. While the exact method remains undisclosed, VEC attacks often involve sophisticated techniques like account takeovers.The lesson here: Vigilance is crucial, regardless of your organization\rquote s size or industry.\par
\b\fs66 (15)Link Manipulation:-\par
=>\b0\fs44 A technique where attackers manipulate hyperlinks to appear as though they lead to a legitimate website, but actually direct the user to a malicious site. This is commonly used in phishing attacks, where the visible text of the link might display a trustworthy URL, but the actual link leads to a harmful destination.\b\fs66\par
Examples:-\par
\b0\fs44 (1)-They make the link text look like a legitimate website URL. For example, \ldblquote Click here to access your account\rdblquote  might lead to a phishing site.\par
(2)-Characters from different language sets mimic legitimate URLs (e.g., using Cyrillic characters to create a fake domain).\par
(3)-They register misspelled domain names (e.g., \ldblquote g00gle.com\rdblquote  instead of \ldblquote google.com\rdblquote ) to deceive users.\b\fs66\par
\par
\lang9\par
\par
\b0\fs44\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0\f3\par
}
 